hey guys john here so in this video i
wanted to show what i like to call back
stops or back spacers or spacers this is
the part of machining today it's just
one inch no three-quarter inch aluminum
rod and i want a machine the entire face
of it or the entire length of it just to
scrape all that ugly off and i need a
way to reliably place it into the chuck
at a depth that I can do again and again
and again so here I have just a piece of
aluminum bar flat bar that I've machine
2.5 4 inches this way the actual length
is irrelevant but so I put it in here
lay it flat against the face put my part
in hold it tight wiggle it as I tighten
it down crank it space or falls out and
then I take the z-axis the tool that
cutting tool and I zero it against the
face of this part so now my Z 0 is that
exactly the backside of that part and it
works excellent so all Z measurements
are going to be in positive i know that
this part is 1.25 inches long plus
tolerance it's like 1.3 right now so
then i can do my cuts and then i can
finish with the part that's exactly 1.25
long and i can machine one side take it
out flip it over onto the space or
machine the other side and now I know
the parts exact the other one I want to
show off is this guy i made this is one
of my first things that I made on my
lathe and then I went on when and later
and touched it up on the CNC to get
little round corners and stuff very
simple started out as 1.5 inch aluminum
tube with a one-inch hole I machine this
side too I don't remember what dimension
but
so that it just fits into the chuck it
into the inner recess of that Chuck
there the part that I used to machine a
lot is this guy very short and aside
from the outer face here every surface
gets machined and again I need to
reliably place that into the truck then
i also created three little spaces here
to vary the depth but to whatever i need
it to be so let's say I use the three
spacers now it's too many two spacers
zero the Z or the tool on the face of
that is Z 0 and then I can place my part
in there and the i turn the outside
diameter of this down to just smaller
than 1.5 which is this come on crank it
down it stays in while I machine and
there we have it too very very useful
tools for late work that I use all the
time especially this guy and it's just a
piece of garbage like there's nothing
fancy to it so I hope you enjoyed it my
next video is going to be machining
these into something useful they are
motor couplers for this lathe conversion
kit so check the next one take care